src/archive/2015/01/5-awesome-tools-to-craft-the-perfect-domain-name/index.md, before:

---
layout: post
tags: post
date: 2015-01-14

title: 5 awesome tools to craft the perfect Domain Name
---

One of the common tips to pick the perfect domain name is to choose one dot-com domain, but a good domain name is a needle in a haystack.

Here, you will find five awesome tools to help you craft an incredible (and available) domain name.

### 1. [WORDOID](http://wordoid.com/)

[![WORDOID](/images/5-awesome-tools-to-craft-the-perfect-domain-name-wordoid.jpg)](http://wordoid.com/)

WORDOID generates words and show the availability in .com and .net domains. You can search using parameters like length or language.

### 2. [Name Mesh](http://www.namemesh.com/)

[![Name Mesh](/images/5-awesome-tools-to-craft-the-perfect-domain-name-namemesh.jpg)](http://www.namemesh.com/)

Name Mesh searches for synonyms and similar words. Use wisely the search box and you will receive useful results.

### 3. [Panabee](http://www.panabee.com/)

[![Panabee](/images/5-awesome-tools-to-craft-the-perfect-domain-name-panabee.jpg)](http://www.panabee.com/)

Panabee gives you suggestions inspired by your original idea, using prefixes, suffixes, abbreviations and popular trends. He also suggests words related to the idea.

### 4. [Impossibility](http://impossibility.org/)

[![Impossibility](/images/5-awesome-tools-to-craft-the-perfect-domain-name-impossibility.jpg)](http://impossibility.org/)

Impossibility combines your idea with a list of nouns, verbs, and adjectives.

### 5. [DomainsBot](http://www.domainsbot.com/)

[![DomainsBot](/images/5-awesome-tools-to-craft-the-perfect-domain-name-domainsbot.jpg)](http://www.domainsbot.com/)

DomainsBot offers you the possibility of search by synonyms, prefixes and suffixes, mixing them with your idea.

Hope this helps.

Commit message:

Update multiple blog posts with the description meta tag

src/archive/2015/01/5-awesome-tools-to-craft-the-perfect-domain-name/index.md, after:

---
layout: post
tags: post
date: 2015-01-14

title: 5 awesome tools to craft the perfect Domain Name
description: Discover 5 tools for perfect domain names - WORDOID, Name Mesh, Panabee, Impossibility, and DomainsBot for finding available .com domains.
---

One of the common tips to pick the perfect domain name is to choose one dot-com domain, but a good domain name is a needle in a haystack.

Here, you will find five awesome tools to help you craft an incredible (and available) domain name.

### 1. [WORDOID](http://wordoid.com/)

[![WORDOID](/images/5-awesome-tools-to-craft-the-perfect-domain-name-wordoid.jpg)](http://wordoid.com/)

WORDOID generates words and show the availability in .com and .net domains. You can search using parameters like length or language.

### 2. [Name Mesh](http://www.namemesh.com/)

[![Name Mesh](/images/5-awesome-tools-to-craft-the-perfect-domain-name-namemesh.jpg)](http://www.namemesh.com/)

Name Mesh searches for synonyms and similar words. Use wisely the search box and you will receive useful results.

### 3. [Panabee](http://www.panabee.com/)

[![Panabee](/images/5-awesome-tools-to-craft-the-perfect-domain-name-panabee.jpg)](http://www.panabee.com/)

Panabee gives you suggestions inspired by your original idea, using prefixes, suffixes, abbreviations and popular trends. He also suggests words related to the idea.

### 4. [Impossibility](http://impossibility.org/)

[![Impossibility](/images/5-awesome-tools-to-craft-the-perfect-domain-name-impossibility.jpg)](http://impossibility.org/)

Impossibility combines your idea with a list of nouns, verbs, and adjectives.

### 5. [DomainsBot](http://www.domainsbot.com/)

[![DomainsBot](/images/5-awesome-tools-to-craft-the-perfect-domain-name-domainsbot.jpg)](http://www.domainsbot.com/)

DomainsBot offers you the possibility of search by synonyms, prefixes and suffixes, mixing them with your idea.

Hope this helps.
