src/archive/2015/02/how-to-encrypt-in-nodejs-and-decrypt-in-c-sharp/index.md, before:

---
layout: post
tags: post
date: 2015-02-16

title: How to Encrypt in Node.js and Decrypt in C#
category: Node.js, .NET
---

Are you trying to send messages to a .NET application from node.js and you want to encrypt them?

You can find here a simple example to accomplish it.

Encrypt in node.js:

```js
var crypto = require("crypto");
var key = "00000000000000000000000000000000"; //replace with your key
var iv = "0000000000000000"; //replace with your IV
var cipher = crypto.createCipheriv("aes256", key, iv);
var crypted = cipher.update(authorizationKey, "utf8", "base64");
crypted += cipher.final("base64");
console.log(crypted);
```

Decrypt with C#:

```csharp
    string keyString = "00000000000000000000000000000000"; //replace with your key
    string ivString = "0000000000000000"; //replace with your iv

    byte[] key = Encoding.ASCII.GetBytes(keyString);
    byte[] iv = Encoding.ASCII.GetBytes(ivString);

    using (var rijndaelManaged =
            new RijndaelManaged { Key = key, IV = iv, Mode = CipherMode.CBC })
            {
                rijndaelManaged.BlockSize = 128;
                rijndaelManaged.KeySize = 256;
                using (var memoryStream =
                       new MemoryStream(Convert.FromBase64String(AuthorizationCode)))
                using (var cryptoStream =
                       new CryptoStream(memoryStream,
                           rijndaelManaged.CreateDecryptor(key, iv),
                           CryptoStreamMode.Read))
                {
                    return new StreamReader(cryptoStream).ReadToEnd();
                }
            }
```

Hope this helps.

Commit message:

Update multiple blog posts with the description meta tag

src/archive/2015/02/how-to-encrypt-in-nodejs-and-decrypt-in-c-sharp/index.md, after:

---
layout: post
tags: post
date: 2015-02-16

title: How to Encrypt in Node.js and Decrypt in C#
description: Cross-platform encryption - encrypt data in Node.js with AES256 and decrypt in C# using RijndaelManaged for secure messaging.
category: Node.js, .NET
---

Are you trying to send messages to a .NET application from node.js and you want to encrypt them?

You can find here a simple example to accomplish it.

Encrypt in node.js:

```js
var crypto = require("crypto");
var key = "00000000000000000000000000000000"; //replace with your key
var iv = "0000000000000000"; //replace with your IV
var cipher = crypto.createCipheriv("aes256", key, iv);
var crypted = cipher.update(authorizationKey, "utf8", "base64");
crypted += cipher.final("base64");
console.log(crypted);
```

Decrypt with C#:

```csharp
    string keyString = "00000000000000000000000000000000"; //replace with your key
    string ivString = "0000000000000000"; //replace with your iv

    byte[] key = Encoding.ASCII.GetBytes(keyString);
    byte[] iv = Encoding.ASCII.GetBytes(ivString);

    using (var rijndaelManaged =
            new RijndaelManaged { Key = key, IV = iv, Mode = CipherMode.CBC })
            {
                rijndaelManaged.BlockSize = 128;
                rijndaelManaged.KeySize = 256;
                using (var memoryStream =
                       new MemoryStream(Convert.FromBase64String(AuthorizationCode)))
                using (var cryptoStream =
                       new CryptoStream(memoryStream,
                           rijndaelManaged.CreateDecryptor(key, iv),
                           CryptoStreamMode.Read))
                {
                    return new StreamReader(cryptoStream).ReadToEnd();
                }
            }
```

Hope this helps.
