src/archive/2015/10/using-trello-to-manage-your-wine-cellar/index.md, before:

---
layout: post
tags: post
date: 2015-10-09

title: Using Trello to manage your Wine Cellar
---

Do you have a wine cellar at home?!

Nothing too big, but the sufficient number of bottles to lose control?!

Do you really know what you have in your cellar?

This post wants to help you solve those problems, and manage your home cellar with an amazing and free tool.

As a good Portuguese, I have a small wine cellar at home, where I store the excellent wines that we produce at Portugal.

![Wine botle](/images/using-trello-to-manage-your-wine-cellar-cellar1.jpg)

I don't have many wine bottles, but I struggled with some questions that I can't answer:

1. When I go to the supermarket, how do I know if I need to buy white or red wine?
2. How to remember to buy a specific wine?
3. Which are the oldest bottles?
4. How to choose a bottle?

The conclusion was simple, **I need a system to manage it**.

As you probably know, I'm a huge fan of Trello and I trusted him to do the job.
If you don't know [Trello.com](https://trello.com/) you have here a description:

> _"[Trello.com](https://trello.com/) is a collaboration tool that organizes your projects into boards. In one glance, Trello tells you what's being worked on, who's working on what, and where something is in a proces"_

**How I did it?**

I brought some **stickers, where I wrote letters** to name the columns **and numbers** to stick in the rows.

Now I can organize the bottles with the combination, for instance A1, C6, etc.

![Wine cellar](/images/using-trello-to-manage-your-wine-cellar-cellar2.jpg)

Then I created a **Trello board** for my wine cellar where I added **4 lists**:

- **To Buy:** Where I add a card for each bottle that I want/need to buy;
- **White Wine:** The bottles of White Wine;
- **Red Wine:** The bottles of Red Wine;
- **Port Wine:** As a good Portuguese and as a Douro and Oporto lover, I have some bottles of Port Wine.

You can add more columns according to the Wine or another alcoholic drinks that you have.

Then I created a **card for each bottle**. I named the card **with the bottle name and the slot** where I stored the wine.
For example: "Kopke, Douro 2012 - E9" where "Kopke, Douro 2012" stands for the name and the region of the wine and "E9" stands for the slot where the bottle is.;

In each card you can also place a photo to identify the bottle if you want.

![Board](/images/using-trello-to-manage-your-wine-cellar-trello-1.png)

I also like to categorize the wines with labels to add some metadata to help me choose a bottle when I need.
For instance, you can create labels with price groups or a rating that you use to categorize the wine.

![Final result](/images/using-trello-to-manage-your-wine-cellar-trello-2.png)

![Final result](/images/using-trello-to-manage-your-wine-cellar-cellar3.jpg)

I hope that this helps you.

Commit message:

Update multiple blog posts with the description meta tag

src/archive/2015/10/using-trello-to-manage-your-wine-cellar/index.md, after:

---
layout: post
tags: post
date: 2015-10-09

title: Using Trello to manage your Wine Cellar
description: Organize your wine cellar with Trello - track bottles by location, manage inventory, and choose wines using stickers and boards.
---

Do you have a wine cellar at home?!

Nothing too big, but the sufficient number of bottles to lose control?!

Do you really know what you have in your cellar?

This post wants to help you solve those problems, and manage your home cellar with an amazing and free tool.

As a good Portuguese, I have a small wine cellar at home, where I store the excellent wines that we produce at Portugal.

![Wine botle](/images/using-trello-to-manage-your-wine-cellar-cellar1.jpg)

I don't have many wine bottles, but I struggled with some questions that I can't answer:

1. When I go to the supermarket, how do I know if I need to buy white or red wine?
2. How to remember to buy a specific wine?
3. Which are the oldest bottles?
4. How to choose a bottle?

The conclusion was simple, **I need a system to manage it**.

As you probably know, I'm a huge fan of Trello and I trusted him to do the job.
If you don't know [Trello.com](https://trello.com/) you have here a description:

> _"[Trello.com](https://trello.com/) is a collaboration tool that organizes your projects into boards. In one glance, Trello tells you what's being worked on, who's working on what, and where something is in a proces"_

**How I did it?**

I brought some **stickers, where I wrote letters** to name the columns **and numbers** to stick in the rows.

Now I can organize the bottles with the combination, for instance A1, C6, etc.

![Wine cellar](/images/using-trello-to-manage-your-wine-cellar-cellar2.jpg)

Then I created a **Trello board** for my wine cellar where I added **4 lists**:

- **To Buy:** Where I add a card for each bottle that I want/need to buy;
- **White Wine:** The bottles of White Wine;
- **Red Wine:** The bottles of Red Wine;
- **Port Wine:** As a good Portuguese and as a Douro and Oporto lover, I have some bottles of Port Wine.

You can add more columns according to the Wine or another alcoholic drinks that you have.

Then I created a **card for each bottle**. I named the card **with the bottle name and the slot** where I stored the wine.
For example: "Kopke, Douro 2012 - E9" where "Kopke, Douro 2012" stands for the name and the region of the wine and "E9" stands for the slot where the bottle is.;

In each card you can also place a photo to identify the bottle if you want.

![Board](/images/using-trello-to-manage-your-wine-cellar-trello-1.png)

I also like to categorize the wines with labels to add some metadata to help me choose a bottle when I need.
For instance, you can create labels with price groups or a rating that you use to categorize the wine.

![Final result](/images/using-trello-to-manage-your-wine-cellar-trello-2.png)

![Final result](/images/using-trello-to-manage-your-wine-cellar-cellar3.jpg)

I hope that this helps you.
