src/archive/2014/12/overcome-the-depth_zero_self_signed_cert-on-nodejs/index.md, before:

---
layout: post
tags: post
date: 2014-12-15

title: Overcome the DEPTH_ZERO_SELF_SIGNED_CERT on Node.js
category: Node.js
---

If you are making requests to a server that uses self-signed certificates in Node.js probably you already have seen the error DEPTH_ZERO_SELF_SIGNED_CERT.
That's an usual error, for instance, if you are working in a test environment.

I faced this error in my test environment and after google it, I got a lot of answers telling me to set the option "rejectUnhauthorized" as false on my request to the server.

But, that doesn't make me happy. Why?

Because I'm using other node modules that do requests to the same server and I will need to "hack" those modules to inject the rejectUnhauthorized attribute. Seems boring isn't it?!

So, what I've done?

![One row to rule them all!](/images/overcome-the-depth_zero_self_signed_cert-on-nodejs-one-row-to-rule-them-all.jpg)

I opened my node start file and I put there the following line of code:

```js
process.env.NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED = "0";
```

If you, like me, want to apply this rule only to a test/development environment, you can do this:

```js
if ("development" == app.get("env")) {
  process.env.NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED = "0";
}
```

Now you are conditioning it to the environment that you want.

Hope this helps.

---

**_UPDATE_**

If you are thinking about applying this to Production environments, please read the comments below.

Commit message:

Update multiple blog posts with the description meta tag

src/archive/2014/12/overcome-the-depth_zero_self_signed_cert-on-nodejs/index.md, after:

---
layout: post
tags: post
date: 2014-12-15

title: Overcome the DEPTH_ZERO_SELF_SIGNED_CERT on Node.js
description: Resolve Node.js DEPTH_ZERO_SELF_SIGNED_CERT errors - handle self-signed certificates in development with NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED.
category: Node.js
---

If you are making requests to a server that uses self-signed certificates in Node.js probably you already have seen the error DEPTH_ZERO_SELF_SIGNED_CERT.
That's an usual error, for instance, if you are working in a test environment.

I faced this error in my test environment and after google it, I got a lot of answers telling me to set the option "rejectUnhauthorized" as false on my request to the server.

But, that doesn't make me happy. Why?

Because I'm using other node modules that do requests to the same server and I will need to "hack" those modules to inject the rejectUnhauthorized attribute. Seems boring isn't it?!

So, what I've done?

![One row to rule them all!](/images/overcome-the-depth_zero_self_signed_cert-on-nodejs-one-row-to-rule-them-all.jpg)

I opened my node start file and I put there the following line of code:

```js
process.env.NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED = "0";
```

If you, like me, want to apply this rule only to a test/development environment, you can do this:

```js
if ("development" == app.get("env")) {
  process.env.NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED = "0";
}
```

Now you are conditioning it to the environment that you want.

Hope this helps.

---

**_UPDATE_**

If you are thinking about applying this to Production environments, please read the comments below.
