src/archive/2019/09/you-should-start-working-remotely-once-a-week/index.md, before:

---
layout: post
tags: post
date: 2019-09-05
title: You should start working remotely once a week
description: If you are in an environment with resistance to Remote Working, the best way is to propose a small experiment.
category: Remote Work, Improvement, Team
featured_image: /images/you-should-start-working-remotely-once-a-week-head.png
---

![Ready to work from home?](/images/you-should-start-working-remotely-once-a-week-head.png)

Do you know the benefits of remote working? Do you doubt that it would work for you? Would you like to give it a try? Don’t know how to convince your boss or even how to start?

If so, I have something for you.

---

_This article is based on my experience of having the complete_ [_company_](https://omnialowcode.com) _working remotely once a week for the past few months._

---

**Remote working** has been growing in the past few years but for some organizations **can be a change difficult to accept.**

If you are in an environment with resistance to Remote Working, the best way is to **propose a small experiment.** The best way to prove a hypothesis is to test it following the scientific method.

I suggest you present the case to the leadership presenting a few reasons (listed below) and proposing a small experience to prove them.

## 5 reasons:

1. [Studies report](https://www.inc.com/scott-mautz/a-2-year-stanford-study-shows-astonishing-productivity-boost-of-working-from-home.html) that working from home has a **huge impact on productivity**.
2. It’s a benefit the company gives which can **help to hire people**.
3. It **reduces costs** both for the company and employee.
4. Leads to an **improvement of the team communication** skills.
5. **Happiness**
   1. Studies report that people who worked remotely were **less likely to leave the company**.
   2. Health improvements.
   3. Less time spent commuting.

## How to start

After presenting a few reasons supporting your case, the best thing to do is to propose an experiment to evaluate the results.

- **Start small.** I suggest starting with one day a week.
- **Set a period for the experiment.** I suggest to never do it for less than 3 months since in the first weeks everyone is still adapting.
- Try to **block a day in the calendar.** For example, schedule a recurring “Remote Wednesday” meeting.
- Try to **organize the work to leave remote days free of meetings.** If you have a creative job, this is a **good day to focus**.
- Make sure that everyone has a **good pair of headphones**.
- Make sure that the team has the **right tools to facilitate the communication** ([Slack](https://slack.com), [Microsoft Teams](https://teams.microsoft.com/start), [Skype](https://www.skype.com/), [Zoom](https://zoom.us/) or other).

Don’t forget to **define a few success metrics and define how you will evaluate them.**

If you have other technique to start this journey, please share!

Commit message:

Update multiple blog posts with the description meta tag

src/archive/2019/09/you-should-start-working-remotely-once-a-week/index.md, after:

---
layout: post
tags: post
date: 2019-09-05
title: You should start working remotely once a week
description: Start remote work gradually - 5 reasons to work from home once weekly, productivity benefits, and convincing management strategies.
category: Remote Work, Improvement, Team
featured_image: /images/you-should-start-working-remotely-once-a-week-head.png
---

![Ready to work from home?](/images/you-should-start-working-remotely-once-a-week-head.png)

Do you know the benefits of remote working? Do you doubt that it would work for you? Would you like to give it a try? Don’t know how to convince your boss or even how to start?

If so, I have something for you.

---

_This article is based on my experience of having the complete_ [_company_](https://omnialowcode.com) _working remotely once a week for the past few months._

---

**Remote working** has been growing in the past few years but for some organizations **can be a change difficult to accept.**

If you are in an environment with resistance to Remote Working, the best way is to **propose a small experiment.** The best way to prove a hypothesis is to test it following the scientific method.

I suggest you present the case to the leadership presenting a few reasons (listed below) and proposing a small experience to prove them.

## 5 reasons:

1. [Studies report](https://www.inc.com/scott-mautz/a-2-year-stanford-study-shows-astonishing-productivity-boost-of-working-from-home.html) that working from home has a **huge impact on productivity**.
2. It’s a benefit the company gives which can **help to hire people**.
3. It **reduces costs** both for the company and employee.
4. Leads to an **improvement of the team communication** skills.
5. **Happiness**
   1. Studies report that people who worked remotely were **less likely to leave the company**.
   2. Health improvements.
   3. Less time spent commuting.

## How to start

After presenting a few reasons supporting your case, the best thing to do is to propose an experiment to evaluate the results.

- **Start small.** I suggest starting with one day a week.
- **Set a period for the experiment.** I suggest to never do it for less than 3 months since in the first weeks everyone is still adapting.
- Try to **block a day in the calendar.** For example, schedule a recurring “Remote Wednesday” meeting.
- Try to **organize the work to leave remote days free of meetings.** If you have a creative job, this is a **good day to focus**.
- Make sure that everyone has a **good pair of headphones**.
- Make sure that the team has the **right tools to facilitate the communication** ([Slack](https://slack.com), [Microsoft Teams](https://teams.microsoft.com/start), [Skype](https://www.skype.com/), [Zoom](https://zoom.us/) or other).

Don’t forget to **define a few success metrics and define how you will evaluate them.**

If you have other technique to start this journey, please share!
