src/privacy.md, before:

---
layout: resource
title: Privacy Policy
description: Privacy policy for Gui Ferreira's website
---

# Privacy Policy

**Last updated: 01-07-2025**

## Introduction

This Privacy Policy describes how Guilherme Ferreira ("Gui Ferreira", "we", "us", or "our") collects, uses, and shares information when you visit our website guiferreira.me (the "Website").

We are committed to protecting your privacy and ensuring transparency about any data processing that occurs when you interact with our Website.

## Information We Collect

### Information You Provide

We do not directly collect or store personal information on our Website. However, you may choose to:

- **Contact us via email**: When you send us an email to inquire about our services, we receive your email address and any information you choose to include in your message.
- **Subscribe to our newsletter**: If you choose to subscribe to our newsletter, your email address is collected and managed by our third-party service provider, Kit.com.

### Information Automatically Collected

When you visit our Website, certain information is automatically collected:

- **Analytics Data**: We use Google Analytics to understand how visitors use our Website. This may include your IP address, browser type, device information, pages visited, time spent on pages, and referring website.
- **Cookies and Similar Technologies**: Our Website uses cookies and browser storage to enhance your experience. These may include:
  - Essential cookies for website functionality
  - Analytics cookies to understand website usage
  - Preference cookies to remember your choices

## How We Use Your Information

We may use the information collected for the following purposes:

- To respond to your inquiries about our services
- To send newsletters if you have subscribed
- To analyze and improve our Website performance and user experience
- To comply with legal obligations

## Third-Party Services

We use the following third-party services:

### Kit.com
If you subscribe to our newsletter, your email address is stored and managed by Kit. Please refer to [Kit's Privacy Policy](https://kit.com/privacy) for information on how they handle your data.

### Google Analytics
We use Google Analytics to analyze Website traffic. Google Analytics uses cookies and collects information such as your IP address and browsing behavior. You can learn more about how Google uses this information by visiting [Google's Privacy Policy](https://policies.google.com/privacy).

## Data Sharing and Disclosure

We do not sell, trade, or rent your personal information to third parties. We may share information only in the following circumstances:

- With your consent
- To comply with legal obligations, court orders, or legal processes
- To protect our rights, privacy, safety, or property

## Data Retention

We do not store personal data on our servers. Any communications sent via email are retained only as long as necessary to provide our services or as required by law.

## Your Rights

Depending on your location, you may have certain rights regarding your personal information:

### For EU Residents (GDPR)
- Right to access your personal data
- Right to rectification of inaccurate data
- Right to erasure ("right to be forgotten")
- Right to restrict processing
- Right to data portability
- Right to object to processing
- Right to withdraw consent

### For California Residents (CCPA)
- Right to know what personal information is collected
- Right to delete personal information
- Right to opt-out of the sale of personal information (we do not sell personal information)
- Right to non-discrimination

To exercise any of these rights, please contact us at gui@guiferreira.me.

## International Data Transfers

Our Website is hosted and operated from Portugal. If you are accessing our Website from outside Portugal, please be aware that your information may be transferred to, stored, and processed in Portugal where our servers are located.

## Children's Privacy

Our Website is not intended for children under the age of 13. We do not knowingly collect personal information from children under 13. If we become aware that we have collected personal information from a child under 13, we will take steps to delete such information.

## Security

We implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to protect your information. However, no method of transmission over the Internet or electronic storage is 100% secure, and we cannot guarantee absolute security.

## Cookies Policy

Our Website uses cookies to enhance your experience. You can control cookies through your browser settings:

- **Essential Cookies**: Required for the Website to function properly
- **Analytics Cookies**: Help us understand how visitors interact with our Website
- **Preference Cookies**: Remember your choices and preferences

Most browsers allow you to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent. However, some parts of our Website may not function properly if cookies are disabled.

## Changes to This Privacy Policy

We may update this Privacy Policy from time to time. We will notify you of any changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page and updating the "Last updated" date.

## Contact Information

If you have any questions or concerns about this Privacy Policy or our data practices, please contact us at:

**Guilherme Ferreira**  
Email: gui@guiferreira.me  
Website: guiferreira.me

---

*This Privacy Policy is effective as of [Date] and applies to all visitors of guiferreira.me.*

Commit message:

Switch to Simple Analytics and update privacy policy
Replaced Google Analytics with Simple Analytics in the site layout for improved privacy. Updated the privacy policy to reflect the use of Simple Analytics, clarifying that it does not use cookies or collect personal data, and removed references to Google Analytics and analytics cookies.

src/privacy.md, after:

---
layout: resource
title: Privacy Policy
description: Privacy policy for Gui Ferreira's website
---

# Privacy Policy

**Last updated: 01-07-2025**

## Introduction

This Privacy Policy describes how Guilherme Ferreira ("Gui Ferreira", "we", "us", or "our") collects, uses, and shares information when you visit our website guiferreira.me (the "Website").

We are committed to protecting your privacy and ensuring transparency about any data processing that occurs when you interact with our Website.

## Information We Collect

### Information You Provide

We do not directly collect or store personal information on our Website. However, you may choose to:

- **Contact us via email**: When you send us an email to inquire about our services, we receive your email address and any information you choose to include in your message.
- **Subscribe to our newsletter**: If you choose to subscribe to our newsletter, your email address is collected and managed by our third-party service provider, Kit.com.

### Information Automatically Collected

When you visit our Website, certain information is automatically collected:

- **Analytics Data**: We use Simple Analytics, a privacy-friendly analytics service, to understand how visitors use our Website. Simple Analytics does not use cookies, does not collect personal data, and does not track visitors across websites. It only collects aggregated data such as page views, referrers, and browser type.
- **Cookies and Similar Technologies**: Our Website may use cookies and browser storage to enhance your experience. These may include:
  - Essential cookies for website functionality
  - Preference cookies to remember your choices

## How We Use Your Information

We may use the information collected for the following purposes:

- To respond to your inquiries about our services
- To send newsletters if you have subscribed
- To analyze and improve our Website performance and user experience
- To comply with legal obligations

## Third-Party Services

We use the following third-party services:

### Kit.com
If you subscribe to our newsletter, your email address is stored and managed by Kit. Please refer to [Kit's Privacy Policy](https://kit.com/privacy) for information on how they handle your data.

### Simple Analytics
We use Simple Analytics to analyze Website traffic. Simple Analytics is a privacy-first analytics service that does not use cookies, does not collect personal data, and is fully GDPR compliant. You can learn more about how Simple Analytics handles data by visiting [Simple Analytics' Privacy Policy](https://simpleanalytics.com/privacy-policy).

## Data Sharing and Disclosure

We do not sell, trade, or rent your personal information to third parties. We may share information only in the following circumstances:

- With your consent
- To comply with legal obligations, court orders, or legal processes
- To protect our rights, privacy, safety, or property

## Data Retention

We do not store personal data on our servers. Any communications sent via email are retained only as long as necessary to provide our services or as required by law.

## Your Rights

Depending on your location, you may have certain rights regarding your personal information:

### For EU Residents (GDPR)
- Right to access your personal data
- Right to rectification of inaccurate data
- Right to erasure ("right to be forgotten")
- Right to restrict processing
- Right to data portability
- Right to object to processing
- Right to withdraw consent

### For California Residents (CCPA)
- Right to know what personal information is collected
- Right to delete personal information
- Right to opt-out of the sale of personal information (we do not sell personal information)
- Right to non-discrimination

To exercise any of these rights, please contact us at gui@guiferreira.me.

## International Data Transfers

Our Website is hosted and operated from Portugal. If you are accessing our Website from outside Portugal, please be aware that your information may be transferred to, stored, and processed in Portugal where our servers are located.

## Children's Privacy

Our Website is not intended for children under the age of 13. We do not knowingly collect personal information from children under 13. If we become aware that we have collected personal information from a child under 13, we will take steps to delete such information.

## Security

We implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to protect your information. However, no method of transmission over the Internet or electronic storage is 100% secure, and we cannot guarantee absolute security.

## Cookies Policy

Our Website may use cookies to enhance your experience. You can control cookies through your browser settings:

- **Essential Cookies**: Required for the Website to function properly
- **Preference Cookies**: Remember your choices and preferences

Note: Our analytics service (Simple Analytics) does not use cookies.

Most browsers allow you to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent. However, some parts of our Website may not function properly if cookies are disabled.

## Changes to This Privacy Policy

We may update this Privacy Policy from time to time. We will notify you of any changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page and updating the "Last updated" date.

## Contact Information

If you have any questions or concerns about this Privacy Policy or our data practices, please contact us at:

**Guilherme Ferreira**  
Email: gui@guiferreira.me  
Website: guiferreira.me

---

*This Privacy Policy is effective as of [Date] and applies to all visitors of guiferreira.me.*
