src/archive/2015/05/lessons-learned-from-agilept-2015/index.md, before:

---
layout: post
tags: post
date: 2015-05-28

title: Lessons learned from Agile Portugal 2015
---

In the last week I attended to the [Agile Portugal 2015](http://2015.agilept.org/), an amazing event that gathers the agile community.
I had the opportunity to listen excellent speakers as:

- [Lachlan Heasman](https://au.linkedin.com/pub/lachlan-heasman/1/920/777)
- [Kiro Harada](https://twitter.com/haradakiro)
- [Pedro Gustavo Torres](https://twitter.com/_pedro_torres)
- [Neil Harrison](https://www.uvu.edu/profpages/profiles/show/user_id/1923)
- [Ricardo Fiel](https://twitter.com/theplastictoy)
- [Carlton Nettleton](https://twitter.com/carlton858)

The event was amazing, and I want to share with you the main lessons that I learned.

---

## The importance of Visuals

Lachlan Heasman has made an amazing talk. He reinforces that the Visual Management is really important to succeed.  
That thought made a lot of sense to me. Nowadays, we have a ton of excellent applications to do kanban boards and that's OK, especially if you have remote workers. But I believe that, if you have your team in a single place you should have a physical kanban board.
Why? Because your team will look into it every day... every single day. Even if they don't want, they will! You will see that your team will be positively influenced, building a culture of transparency and trust.

![Kanban style](/images/lessons-learned-from-agilept-2015-kanban-style.jpg)

## User stories

Why we are writing User Stories in the form of "As a... I want to... so that..."? Will the customer realize the language? Or will they think that we are crazy nerds?
As the [wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_story) (that eternal font of true) refers, an "user story is a description consisting of one or more sentences in the everyday or business language of the end user or user of a system".
Have you ever listened a business person talking like that?

Carlton Nettleton, presented a simpler and much objective way to write user stories. How? Answering the following questions: Who? What? And Why?
I'm a fan of the [Six W's method](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_Ws) to describe and understand complex problems, and Carlton made me correlate that with user stories.

## The true essence of agile

The industry sells us the idea that Agile (or Scrum), is a magic formula that we should apply to have good results. You just need to have some meetings, do sprints of "X" weeks and you will be fine.
That's not true.

Companies are made from people, so they are different. Each one has a different culture and a different identity. This uniqueness will make them agile.

Agile, isn't a process, a system or a mathematical formula. Agile is a culture.
It's different be agile than have a certificate that says that you are agile.
The process is the less important part. You should have the focus on the outcome.
Always think on where you want to go, not on what you need to do to go there.

---

Was an amazing day, with incredible people, in an awesome place.
Hope to be there next year.

Commit message:

Update multiple blog posts with the description meta tag

src/archive/2015/05/lessons-learned-from-agilept-2015/index.md, after:

---
layout: post
tags: post
date: 2015-05-28

title: Lessons learned from Agile Portugal 2015
description: Key lessons from Agile Portugal 2015 - visual management importance, user story writing, and building transparent team culture with physical boards.
---

In the last week I attended to the [Agile Portugal 2015](http://2015.agilept.org/), an amazing event that gathers the agile community.
I had the opportunity to listen excellent speakers as:

- [Lachlan Heasman](https://au.linkedin.com/pub/lachlan-heasman/1/920/777)
- [Kiro Harada](https://twitter.com/haradakiro)
- [Pedro Gustavo Torres](https://twitter.com/_pedro_torres)
- [Neil Harrison](https://www.uvu.edu/profpages/profiles/show/user_id/1923)
- [Ricardo Fiel](https://twitter.com/theplastictoy)
- [Carlton Nettleton](https://twitter.com/carlton858)

The event was amazing, and I want to share with you the main lessons that I learned.

---

## The importance of Visuals

Lachlan Heasman has made an amazing talk. He reinforces that the Visual Management is really important to succeed.  
That thought made a lot of sense to me. Nowadays, we have a ton of excellent applications to do kanban boards and that's OK, especially if you have remote workers. But I believe that, if you have your team in a single place you should have a physical kanban board.
Why? Because your team will look into it every day... every single day. Even if they don't want, they will! You will see that your team will be positively influenced, building a culture of transparency and trust.

![Kanban style](/images/lessons-learned-from-agilept-2015-kanban-style.jpg)

## User stories

Why we are writing User Stories in the form of "As a... I want to... so that..."? Will the customer realize the language? Or will they think that we are crazy nerds?
As the [wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_story) (that eternal font of true) refers, an "user story is a description consisting of one or more sentences in the everyday or business language of the end user or user of a system".
Have you ever listened a business person talking like that?

Carlton Nettleton, presented a simpler and much objective way to write user stories. How? Answering the following questions: Who? What? And Why?
I'm a fan of the [Six W's method](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_Ws) to describe and understand complex problems, and Carlton made me correlate that with user stories.

## The true essence of agile

The industry sells us the idea that Agile (or Scrum), is a magic formula that we should apply to have good results. You just need to have some meetings, do sprints of "X" weeks and you will be fine.
That's not true.

Companies are made from people, so they are different. Each one has a different culture and a different identity. This uniqueness will make them agile.

Agile, isn't a process, a system or a mathematical formula. Agile is a culture.
It's different be agile than have a certificate that says that you are agile.
The process is the less important part. You should have the focus on the outcome.
Always think on where you want to go, not on what you need to do to go there.

---

Was an amazing day, with incredible people, in an awesome place.
Hope to be there next year.
